We're seeing the U.S.
Secretary of state, Anthony Blinken,
meeting with the Israeli
defense minister.
Let's listen to hear if they say anything
Mr.
Secretary, thank you for coming.
Mr..
We always know
new that the United States is a good deal
but today the people in Israel
and in the world
see it in their own eyes.
You are here for the second time
in this week.
Senior
officials of America are here every day.
And
no American flag is
on.
There is sailing on board
in the Mediterranean.
And we know what is the meaning.
So let me tell you, Mr.
Secretary,
this will be a long walk.
The price will be high,
but we are going to win
for Israel, for the Jewish people,
and for the values
that both countries believe in.
With your permission,
you will join Hebrew. Please
enough.
Normal. Now, think of it.
The most common denominator
echoed by farmer Shinya Yamanaka
Work walk
the second day in the dusty dish.
This man was me.
That's the Israeli defense minister
you have got.
He is speaking in Hebrew now
after he greeted
the US Secretary of State,
Antony Blinken.
They are in Tel Aviv right now
where they have been meeting.
This is Blinken's second time in Israel
in just a few days.
He left Israel
and then did this
whirlwind diplomatic mission
to many countries in the region.
But now back in Tel Aviv,
you have got
the defense
minister also mentioned the
US military presence
not far off the coast.
There is already one
carrier group, the USS Gerald Ford,
and now a second
carrier group, the US, Dwight Eisenhower,
will be headed to that region.
I'm talking here
until they start speaking English.
Let's listen again.
You know, our
deep commitment
to Israel's right
and indeed its obligation
to defend itself
and to defend its people.
And in that you have
always had
the support of the United States.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, sir.
Mr.
Secretary, word
All right.
All business
from the US
Secretary of State
Antony Blinken, meeting with the Israeli
Defense Minister, Yoav Gallant.
Did not take questions,
did not say much of anything.
Other than the U.S.
is firmly behind Israel as it prepares
seemingly for a ground operation
into Gaza.
Let's get straight to Israel, where CNN's
Nic Robertson is.
Nic, what is the latest
on the ground at this hour?
It's been a relatively quiet day
in terms of rocket strikes,
missiles, artillery going into Gaza
and not many missiles
coming out of Gaza either.
It creates the impression
that they're not a pause,
but at least
ammunition in the
in the amount of military activity
to perhaps
give some space
to some of the political discussions.
I said that
and you heard the explosion behind me.
Yes.
The afternoon has become
increasingly punctuated
by heavy explosions.
That does sound like
a missile strike landing on Gaza there.
And perhaps as we go into darkness,
I think we're beginning to see
perhaps a little
uptick in the tempo here.
This is
northern Gaza
right behind me
that we know that in northern Gaza
late today,
the IDF said that
they hit a Hamas commander
appearing to destroy a building,
taking him out, if you will.
And along this border area,
we're seeing that continued buildup
and preparations among the IDF
in readiness for the possibility
of a ground incursion.
Now, I don't know how this may affect
the military operations,
but there was a very, very heavy
rainstorm passed through here
earlier today.
But from a UN
and humanitarian perspective,
inside Gaza, rainstorms
are the last thing they need.
Half a million people
understood to have left northern Gaza.
There isn't enough shelter for them
in the south of Gaza.
Isn't enough food, isn't enough water.
So real concerns
if the weather does deteriorate more
and this more rainstorms,
a lot of civilians inside Gaza
not only trying to dodge missiles,
but will also be caught out in
some atrocious conditions.
Just a
absolutely terrible situation
and of course, as soon as you say
that it's been quiet,
we heard
the airstrikes behind you
as darkness has fallen
where you are on the border, near
the border between Israel and Gaza.
Thank you so much for that report, Nic.
And I want to now go to Jerusalem
and CNN's Jeremy Diamond.
Jeremy,
I know you have been following
and doing
reporting on what
the secretary of state,
Antony Blinken, has been doing,
not just in Israel where you are.
He is now back,
but also the frantic shuttle diplomacy.
He has been engaged in across the region
Yeah.
Then between Secretary of State
Tony Blinken's visit to Israel
last week
and his visit today,
he visited about a half dozen
Arab countries in the region, countries
ranging from Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, Jordan, Egypt,
Qatar, etc.
And all of this
in a shuttle diplomacy
effort focused on several key lines,
the first of which
is the humanitarian situation
inside of Gaza,
trying to get the flow of aid
back into to Gaza
as well as allowing Americans
to be able to leave
through the Rafah
crossing and go into Egypt.
In addition to that,
the secretary of state also focused on
trying to prevent this Hamas
Israel conflict
from blowing up into a wider war.
And then, of course,
there is the issue of those 199 hostages
being held inside of Gaza,
of which
at least 20 of whom
are believed to be American citizens.
Now, we know that
the secretary of state today
met with the Israeli
Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu,
as well as the Israeli presidents
and the defense minister.
We just saw the secretary of state
with the defense minister,
where Blinken
effectively reiterated
the US commitment
to the state of Israel to its right.
And what he said is also its obligation
to defend itself.
But one thing became very clear
in this visit today
is that while Blinken
is trying to address
the humanitarian situation,
trying to prevent this war
from becoming a regional situation,
he is not there to prevent war
from a growing bigger
between Israel and Hamas.
And that was evidenced
when you heard the Israeli defense
minister, Galen's,
saying that this will be a long war
and also warning that the price
for Israel to defend itself
will indeed be high.
There is no sign as of yet that the U.S.
is backing off
from this kind
of no daylight position with Israel.
They are fully supporting
Israel in its plans
to widen
this military campaign against Hamas.
What they are trying to do
is to get Americans
out of the Gaza Strip
to get humanitarian
aid into the Gaza Strip,
and also ideally
to try and find some way
of getting those American hostages
who are in Gaza out of there.
And out of harm's way.
Dana, Jeremy,
thank you so much for that reporting.
And today,
a site the world has been waiting to see.
CNN spotted five U.N.
fuel trucks entered Gaza.
It is the first sign
that the Rafah crossing,
the one between Gaza and Egypt,
is even partially open.
But this is important.
It remains closed to people,
desperate Palestinian civilians trapped
in a war zone
As the Egyptians,
they have
to be willing to have that gate open
and have a flow of human traffic
get through that.
And so we're in discussions with them
about what that could look like
and how that can be managed in a way
that that protects
Egypt's national security
interests as well.